Install TypeScript compiler
To install the TypeScript compiler, you launch the Terminal on macOS or Linux and Command Prompt on Windows and type the following command:

pnpm install -g typescript
After the installation, you can type the following command to check the current version of the TypeScript compiler:

tsc --v

Install tsx module
If you want to run TypeScript code directly on Node.js without precompiling, you can use the tsx module.

To install the tsx module globally, run the following command from the Terminal on macOS and Linux or Command Prompt on Windows:

pnpm install -g tsx

A TypeScript compiler compiles the TypeScript into JavaScript.
Use the tsc command to compile a TypeScript file to a JavaScript file.
Use the tsx module to run TypeScript directly on Node.js without precompiling it to JavaScript.

tsc app.ts
Code language: CSS (css)

If everything is fine, you’ll see a new file called app.js is generated by the TypeScript compiler:


To run the app.js file in Node.js, you use the following command:

node app.js


Why use TypeScript
There are two main reasons to use TypeScript:

TypeScript adds a type system to help you avoid many problems with dynamic types in JavaScript.
TypeScript implements the future features of JavaScript a.k.a ES Next so you can use them today.

JavaScript is dynamically typed. Unlike statically typed languages such as Java or C#, values have types instead of variables. 
And you don’t need to explicitly tell JavaScript the type. JavaScript will automatically infer the type from the value.

Dynamic types offer flexibility. However, they also lead to problems.

Problems with dynamic types

How Typescript solves problems of dynamic types
To fix the problem of referencing a property that doesn’t exist on an object, you do the following steps:

First, define the “shape” of the product object using an interface. 
interface Product{
    id: number,
    name: string,
    price: number
};

Second, explicitly use the Product type as the return type of the getProduct() function:

function getProduct(id) : Product{
  return {
    id: id,
    name: `Awesome Gadget ${id}`,
    price: 99.5
  }
}
Code language: JavaScript (javascript)
When you reference a property that doesn’t exist, the code editor will inform you immediately: